#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\date{}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
FileZeus - A File Server with Merkel Tree Verification in OCaml
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\size large
CC110 Final Project
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Karthik S 
\size small
IMT2012021
\size default

\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
and 
\end_layout

\end_inset

Chandan Yeshwanth 
\size small
IMT2012010
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
FileZeus is a simple file server that uses Unix sockets to communicate between
 a single client and server.
 The application verifies transfered files using a Merkel tree; a binary
 tree that stores hashes of files in its leaf nodes.
 The server allows the user to upload, list, download and remove files.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Requests are sent by the client as a semicolon (;) delimited string, the
 first part of this string is the action being performed (upload, list,
 download, remove).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The application consists of 5 modules -
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description

\family typewriter
client 
\family default
The client side, sends requests to the server and receives a file or list
 of files, then verifies the file that was sent.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description

\family typewriter
\series bold
server 
\family default
\series default
The server side, handles client requests based on the command string.
 The server maintains a Merkel tree that it updates every time a file is
 uploaded or removed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description

\family typewriter
merkle 
\family default
The Merkle interface is used to generate a Merkle tree, by a client to verify
 received files, by the server to generate list of hash values.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description

\family typewriter
\series bold
socket 
\family default
\series default
Wrapper for Unix 
\family typewriter
recv 
\family default
function 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Description

\family typewriter
file 
\family default
Contains functions to read and write to files
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The application can be extended to multiple 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Installation and Usage
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Run 
\family typewriter
make all 
\family default
to compile all modules, or run 
\family typewriter
make 
\family default
on one of 
\family typewriter
client, server, merkle, merkle_interface 
\family default
to build that module.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To run the application, open two terminal windows from the directory containing
 the 
\family typewriter
server 
\family default
and 
\family typewriter
client 
\family default
executables.
 Run 
\family typewriter
./server 
\family default
in one, and 
\family typewriter
./client 
\family default
in the other.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The client side displays a menu with numbered options.
 Type the option you want, and you will be prompted to enter the name of
 the file you want to upload or download, according to the selected option.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Bibliography
\begin_inset CommandInset bibitem
LatexCommand bibitem
key "key-1"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
